---
title: Alt text
related:
  - captions
  - images
published: true
---

Images must have alternative text (or alt text) to describe the information or function of the image.

Alt text sits behind the image and appears when an image is disabled, fails to load or when people with low vision or reading difficulties use screen readers or speech input software.

When content includes images, you must write the alt text.

Different types of images have different alt text requirements. You can use an [alt text decision tree](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/decision-tree/) to help you work out what kind of alt text you need.

### Informative images

Informative images should have a short description conveying the essential information presented by the image.

**For example**

> Example to come.

### Complex images

Complex images such as graphs, charts and diagrams need:

- a short alt text that briefly describes the content (this should be different from the text of a caption)
- content near the image that explains why it is there and what it shows or highlights
- a text link with the `longdesc` attribute that links to a page with the long text alternative.

Long text alternative is a full description of a complex image or a table of data used to generate the graph or chart.

To write long text imagine you're describing the complex image in a radio interview.

### Non-decorative images

All non-decorative images should be referenced in the surrounding text.

**For example**

> Example to come.
