---
title: Video
related:
  - accessibility
  - "alt-text"
  - multimedia
published: true
---

Video can be a great way of getting information across to an audience. People prefer videos that are around 2-3 minutes long. The longer a video, the harder it is to keep people engaged.

Write the script with your audience in mind and get to the point early on.

Think visually. What's shown on the video should describe what is being said to reduce the narrative. Show don’t tell.

### Accessibility

Create accessible videos using closed captions, audio narration or another alternative such as a text transcript available in HTML.

Also ensure access is taken into account for:

- visual impairment
- hearing impairment
- mobility --- restricted keyboard access
- flickering and moving content
- language difficulty
- non-conducive environments, for example a noisy environment or a workplace where the sound disturbs colleagues.

### Transcripts

- Add the HTML transcript to the same page as the video. Alternatively, link to a separate page from immediately below or beside the video itself.
- Include speaker names. If only 1 speaker it’s generally not necessary to include unless their identity is crucial to the content. If more than 1 speaker, identify each speaker’s contribution.
- Include all speech content.
- Only include non-verbal information, if relevant, enclosed in square brackets (for example ‘...to get to the other side [laughing]’).
- End the transcript with the words 'End of transcript'.
